support for POETRY_CONFIG_DIR, POETRY_DATA_DIR and POETRY_CACHE_DIR environment variables (#5301)
python-poetry/poetry: docs/configuration.md

    weight: 40
---

# Default Directories

Poetry uses these following default directories

## Config Directory

- Linux: `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/$appname` or `~/.config/$appname`

> - Windows:`%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\$appauthor\$appname` (not roaming) or`%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\$appauthor\$appname` (roaming)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Windows: `%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\$appauthor\$appname` (not roaming) or `%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\$appauthor\$appname` (roaming)
```
What are `roaming` and `not roaming`? and `$appauthor` and `$appname`? Also, you forgot some spaces.

Reviewer 2: I would actually rewrite these at `%APPDATA%` and `%LOCALAPPDATA%`.

- MacOS: `~/Library/Preferences/$appname/$version`

You can override this Config directory by setting `POETRY_CONFIG_DIR` environment variable

## Data Directory

- Linux: `$XDG_DATA_HOME/$appname` or `~/.local/share/$appname`
- Windows:`%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\$appauthor\$appname` (not roaming) or`%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\$appauthor\$appname` (roaming)

> - MacOS: `~/Library/Application Support/$appname/$version`

Reviewer: the same as above. "magic" variables and spaces.

You can override this Data Directory by setting `POETRY_DATA_DIR` environment variable. If `POETRY_HOME` environment variable is available, then `POETRY_HOME` will be given higher priority.

## Cache Directory

- Linux: `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/pypoetry` or `~/.cache/pypoetry`
- Windows: `%APPDATA%\pypoetry\Cache`
- MacOS: `~/Library/Caches/pypoetry`

You can override this Cache directory by setting `POETRY_CACHE_DIR` environment variable

> # Configuration

Reviewer: This is now not rendered (as this is second h1 on one page). What's more, text after this header should be reworked as this doubles the information about config directories.

Author: @Secrus I reworked and put "Default Directories" section under "Configuration" header. Hope this will be proper now.

> - Windows:`%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\$appauthor\$appname\Cache\$version`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Windows: `%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\$appauthor\$appname\Cache\$version`
```

export POETRY_HTTP_BASIC_MY_REPOSITORY_PASSWORD=secret
```

## Default Directories

> Poetry uses these following default directories

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Poetry uses the following default directories:
```

### Config Directory

- Linux: `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pypoetry` or `~/.config/pypoetry`
- Windows: `%APPDATA%\pypoetry`
- MacOS: `~/Library/Preferences/pypoetry`

> You can override this Config directory by setting `POETRY_CONFIG_DIR` environment variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can override the Config directory by setting the `POETRY_CONFIG_DIR` environment variable.
```

### Data Directory

- Linux: `$XDG_DATA_HOME/pypoetry` or `~/.local/share/pypoetry`
- Windows: `%APPDATA%\pypoetry`
- MacOS: `~/Library/Application Support/pypoetry`

> You can override this Data Directory by setting `POETRY_DATA_DIR` environment variable. If `POETRY_HOME` environment variable is available, then `POETRY_HOME` will be given higher priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can override the Data directory by setting the `POETRY_DATA_DIR` or `POETRY_HOME` environment variables. If `POETRY_HOME` is set, it will be given higher priority.
```

### Cache Directory

- Linux: `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/pypoetry` or `~/.cache/pypoetry`
- Windows: `%APPDATA%\pypoetry\Cache`
- MacOS: `~/Library/Caches/pypoetry`

> You can override this Cache directory by setting `POETRY_CACHE_DIR` environment variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can override the Cache directory by setting the `POETRY_CACHE_DIR` environment variable.
```
